Eligible Professional
Meaningful Use Table of Contents
Core and Menu Set Objectives
Stage 1(2013 Definition)
Last Updated: July 2014
Eligible Professional Core Objectives
(1) Use CPOE for medication orders directly entered by any licensed healthcare professional
who can enter orders into the medical record per state, local and professional guidelines.
AVAILABLE
(2) Implement drug-drug and drug-allergy interaction checks. AVAILABLE
(3) Maintain an up-to-date problem list of current and active diagnoses. AVAILABLE
(4) Generate and transmit permissible prescriptions electronically (eRx). AVAILABLE
(5) Maintain active medication list. AVAILABLE
(6) Maintain active medication allergy list. AVAILABLE
(7) Record all of the following demographics:
(A) Preferred language
(B) Gender
(C) Race
(D) Ethnicity
(E) Date of birth
AVAILABLE
(8) Record and chart changes in the following vital signs:
(A) Height
(B) Weight
(C) Blood pressure
(D) Calculate and display body mass index (BMI)
(E) Plot and display growth charts for children 2–20 years, including BMI
AVAILABLE
(9) Record smoking status for patients 13 years old or older. AVAILABLE
(10) Report ambulatory clinical quality measures to CMS, or in the case of Medicaid EPs, the
States. (No longer core objective but still required) AVAILABLE
(11) Implement one clinical decision support rule relevant to specialty or high clinical priority
along with the ability to track compliance with that rule. AVAILABLE
(12) Provide patients with an electronic copy of their health information (including diagnostic
test results, problem list, medication lists, medication allergies) upon request. AVAILABLE
(13) Provide clinical summaries for patients for each office visit. AVAILABLE
(14) Protect electronic health information created or maintained by the certified EHR
technology through the implementation of appropriate technical capabilities. AVAILABLE
Eligible Professional Menu Objectives
(1) Implement drug formulary checks. AVAILABLE
(2) Incorporate clinical lab-test results into EHR as structured data. AVAILABLE
(3) Generate lists of patients by specific conditions to use for quality improvement,
reduction of disparities, research, or outreach. AVAILABLE
(4) Send patient reminders per patient preference for preventive/follow-up care. AVAILABLE
(5) Provide patients with timely electronic access to their health information (including lab
results, problem list, medication lists, and allergies) within 4 business days of the
information being available to the EP.
AVAILABLE
(6) Use certified EHR technology to identify patient-specific education resources and provide
those resources to the patient if appropriate. AVAILABLE
(7) The EP who receives a patient from another setting of care or provider of care or believes
an encounter is relevant should perform medication reconciliation. AVAILABLE
(8) The EP who transitions their patient to another setting of care or provider of care or
refers their patient to another provider of care should provide summary care record for
each transition of care or referral.
AVAILABLE
(9) Capability to submit electronic data to immunization registries or immunization
information systems and actual submission according to applicable law and practice. AVAILABLE
(10) Capability to submit electronic syndromic surveillance data to public health agencies and
actual submission according to applicable law and practice. AVAILABLE
